# Rocky Linux Release Testing

The Rocky Linux Testing Team relies on some tools and approaches to validate and gurantee as much as possible that everything works fine on different hardware architectures, platforms and so. Here you can find which tools are those.

### Folders

The following folders has variated purposes that contains necessary information on testing (reports, recommendations etc) :

* `comps` : RHEL vs Rocky repository
* `openqa-docker` : Running OpenQA from Docker
* `pkgs-comp` : This program is used for taking the list of packages produced during Rocky's build process generating a csv file for BaseOS packages and another for AppStream packages, while making sure to have the ones with the exact similar name first, and then it starts looking into the ones with modified names. The idea is to have as complete as possible list with 1-to-1 mapping to upstream packages (e.g. CentOS, or RHEL).
* `repo_compare` : Code to compare Rocky Linux repositories against RHEL 8 ones and produce status information.
* `report_parser` `report_parser.py` is a Python executable that takes two parameters. The two parameters are the name of the input file and the name of the output file. The input file is a report generated by xsos. The output file is a YAML file.
* `rpminspect` : RPM build deviation analysis tools. rpminspect looks at the output of an RPM build (e.g., the output of a Koji build) and examines the contents of the build artifacts to report: Policy compliance, Changes from a previous build to the current build and General correctness and best practices.
* `test-reports` : Reports generated by tests ran through the use of `xsos`tool.

### Testing areas

You can check our [testing areas](TESTING_AREAS.md)

Feel free to [open an issue]() and suggest a new testing area with a [testing area template]()

### Testing lifecycle

You can check the [testing lifecycle](TESTING_AREAS.md) to understand more on how our testing process goes live and all procedures we roll out to test and validate Rocky Linux.


## Stay tunned

For ongoing discussion, join the ~Testing channel in https://chat.rockylinux.org

For durable discussion, see the Testing category in the forums at https://forums.rockylinux.org/c/devel/testing/19
